Downloaded from
YTS.MX
["SONG FOR THE LONELY" BY CHER]
♪ WHEN YOU'RE STANDING
ON THE EDGE OF NOWHERE ♪
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
Narrator: HE'S CALLED THE
WORLD'S LONELIEST ELEPHANT.
CAPTIVE FOR 35 YEARS
IN A RUNDOWN ZOO.
Khan: YOU CAN JUST
FEEL HIS GRIEF.
Cowne: STILL BRINGS TEARS
TO MY EYES NOW.
HE WAS A TOTALLY BROKEN ANIMAL.
Narrator: BUT WHEN
A GLOBAL MOVEMENT
PLEAS TO FREE KAAVAN.
THE GODDESS OF POP TAKES NOTICE.
Cher: I WAS REALLY ANGRY.
Narrator: NOW AFTER
A FIVE-YEAR CAMPAIGN.
HE HAS THE CHANCE
FOR A BETTER LIFE.
Thompson: I WANT TO OFFER HIM
AN ELEPHANT'S LIFE.
Narrator: BUT
TIME IS RUNNING OUT.
AND A PANDEMIC HAS
THE WORLD IN LOCKDOWN.
♪ AND THIS IS A SONG
IT'LL TAKE HUGE FAITH.
Dr. Amir: DO YOU BELIEVE
IN MIRACLES?
Narrator: AND AN
ARMY OF PEOPLE...
TO MOVE AN UNPREDICTABLE
ELEPHANT...
Dr. Amir: HE IS DANGEROUS.
RISKY. IS A POWER MACHINE.
Narrator: THOUSANDS OF MILES.
Cowne: IT WAS PRETTY
RISKY FOR HIM.
BUT VERY DANGEROUS FOR
THE PEOPLE ONBOARD.
Narrator: CAN THE
PASSION OF A SUPERSTAR
HELP TO SAVE HIM?
[METAL DOOR BANGING]
Cher: I WANTED TO FREE HIM.
I KNEW THAT WE HAD
TO GET HIM OUT.
Dr. Amir: STOP. STOP. STOP!
[TENSE ELECTRONIC MUSIC]
[GENTLE INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC]
Narrator: KAAVAN. A
MAGNIFICENT BULL ELEPHANT.
HAS BEEN HELD IN PAKISTAN'S
ISLAMABAD ZOO FOR 35 YEARS
IN PITIFUL CONDITIONS.
LIKE ANY BULL ELEPHANT.
KAAVAN IS DANGEROUS
AND HAS KILLED TWO
OF HIS KEEPERS.
IN 2012. HIS ONLY COMPANION
DIES FROM NEGLECT.
CHAINED UP AND ALONE.
KAAVAN CAN'T EVEN WALK THE
LENGTH OF HIS ENCLOSURE.
LET ALONE BATHE IN
HIS DRIED-UP POOL.
BUT EVEN IN THIS SORRY STATE.
HE'S STILL THE ZOO'S
STAR ATTRACTION.
THEN. IN 2015. A
TRAINEE VET FROM AMERICA
VISITS THE ZOO ON A TRIP TO
SEE HER PAKISTANI FAMILY.
Khan: HERE'S THIS
SOLITARY ELEPHANT.
JUST IN THIS BARE SHED.
AND THAT WEAVING BEHAVIOR
WHERE HE WAS JUST MOVING
BY HIMSELF BACK AND FORTH.
THAT REALLY STRUCK ME.
Narrator: HIS WEIRD
ROCKING AMUSES VISITORS.
WHO MISTAKENLY CALL KAAVAN
"THE DANCING ELEPHANT".
BUT THANKS TO HER TRAINING.
SAMAR KNOWS THIS IS A
SIGN OF TERRIBLE BOREDOM.
Khan: I KNEW ELEPHANTS ARE
SUPPOSED TO BE INCREDIBLY SOCIAL
AND INCREDIBLY
INTELLIGENT ANIMALS.
AND TO SEE HIM WITH NO
SOURCE OF ENRICHMENT AT ALL.
I KNEW THAT THIS BEHAVIOR IS
REALLY STEREOTYPIC BEHAVIOR
FOR ANIMALS WHO
HAVE FACED SEVERE
EITHER MENTAL OR
PHYSICAL NEGLECT.
Narrator: KAAVAN'S
SWAYING INTENSIFIES
AFTER THE DEATH OF HIS FEMALE
COMPANION SAHELI IN 2012.
Khan: FOR ME. ACTUALLY.
THE MOST PIVOTAL MOMENT
WAS SEEING THIS PHOTO
OF KAAVAN AND SAHELI
AFTER SHE HAD PASSED.
ELEPHANTS. THEY'RE LIKE
THESE INCREDIBLY INTELLIGENT
AND INCREDIBLY SOCIAL ANIMALS.
AND HE'S REACHING OUT TO SAHELI.
AND YOU CAN JUST FEEL HIS GRIEF.
I FOUND OUT THAT THE
REASON WHY SAHELI PASSED
WAS BECAUSE OF GANGRENE
FROM HER CHAINS.
AND THAT POOR FOOT CARE
RESULTED IN HER DYING.
AND I KNEW KAAVAN NOW IS
WEARING THOSE SAME CHAINS.
AND IF HE DOESN'T GET OUT.
THEN THE SAME THING IS
GONNA HAPPEN TO HIM.
[DRAMATIC PERCUSSIVE MUSIC]
Narrator: AT 36 YEARS OLD.
KAAVAN SHOULD BE IN HIS PRIME.
BUT HE'S A FAR CRY
FROM THE ENDEARING CALF
THAT ARRIVED IN
PAKISTAN IN 1985.
HE WAS ORIGINALLY A
GIFT FROM SRI LANKA
TO PRESIDENT GENERAL ZIA'S
13-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER.
BUT NOW. THE DELIGHT OF A YOUNG
GIRL HAS BECOME A TRAGEDY.
SAMAR KHAN BECOMES
DESPERATE TO SAVE HIM.
Khan: MY MOM REALLY
ENCOURAGED ME TO ACT.
AND I DECIDED TO OPEN UP
A CHANGE.ORG PETITION.
AND I OPENED UP A FACEBOOK PAGE
CALLED "FREE KAAVAN
THE ELEPHANT".
Narrator: IN SEPTEMBER 2015.
SHE LAUNCHES HER
CAMPAIGN TO FREE HIM...
AND FACEBOOK EXPLODES.
Khan: I WOKE UP AND MY PHONE
WAS HOT TO THE TOUCH
'CAUSE THOUSANDS UPON
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
WERE WRITING INTO THE
PAGE. SIGNING THE PETITION.
Narrator: IN TORONTO. CANADA.
PAKISTANI EX-PAT ANIKA SLEEM
ANSWERS THE CALL.
Sleem: FREE KAAVAN!
Narrator: ANIKA JOINS THE CRY
THAT'S BEEN GATHERING MOMENTUM
ON TWITTER FOR MONTHS.
WHEN A SUPERSTAR WITH A PASSION
FOR ANIMALS TAKES NOTICE.
Sleem: AND THEN ONE DAY AT
MIDNIGHT. I OPEN MY TWITTER
AND I GET A TWEET FROM CHER...
SAYING. "JUST GOT OFF THE
PHONE WITH COOL BRITISH FRIEND.
ALIGNING PEOPLE TO FIX THIS."
IT WAS ACTUALLY CHER.
Cher: ALL THE KIDS ON
MY TWITTER SITE
STARTED TO INUNDATE
ME WITH "SAVE KAAVAN".
AND I THOUGHT. I CANNOT SAVE
AN ELEPHANT IN PAKISTAN.
BECAUSE I HAVE NO STREET CRED.
HOW AM I GONNA DO THIS?
Narrator: SO CHER
CONTACTS A FRIEND
WHO'S BEEN INVOLVED WITH
RELOCATING ELEPHANTS IN AFRICA.
Cher: I MET THIS MAN.
MARK COWNE.
HE'S BOB GELDOF'S MANAGER.
AND HE WAS TELLING
ME ABOUT ELEPHANTS
THAT HE'D SAVED IN SOUTH AFRICA.
AND SO I JUST CALL
HIM. AND I SAY.
"WELL. THERE'S THIS
ELEPHANT I WANT TO SAVE.
AND I DON'T REALLY KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT IT."
AND HE SAID. "I'LL
GO RIGHT AWAY."
[SOFT MUSIC]
Cowne: IT'S CHER!
SHE'S A GREAT FRIEND.
OF COURSE. I SAID YES.
Narrator: MARK COWNE RACES TO
ISLAMABAD TO SEE KAAVAN.
Cowne: WHEN I FIRST MET
KAAVAN. IT WAS SO SAD.
IT STILL BRINGS
TEARS TO MY EYES NOW.
HE WAS A TOTALLY BROKEN ANIMAL.
Cher: I SAW A PICTURE. AND THE
PICTURE WAS SO HORRIBLE.
AND HE WAS SHACKLED.
AND IN THIS SHED...
CONSTANTLY.
AND I JUST...
I WAS PISSED OFF TOO.
I WAS REALLY ANGRY.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
Narrator: MARK COWNE
APPEALS TO THE ZOO OFFICIALS.
Cher: HE SAID. "TAKE
HIS CHAINS OFF.
PUT WATER IN THE LITTLE POOL.
PUT A TOP ON THE SHED.
AND GIVE HIM SOMETHING
TO PLAY WITH."
AND THEY DID IT.
Narrator: BUT THEIR
OPTIMISM IS SHORT-LIVED.
BEYOND THESE SMALL CHANGES.
KAAVAN'S SITUATION DOESN'T
IMPROVE FOR TWO MORE YEARS.
[EMOTIONAL MUSIC]
SO IN 2018. CHER
LAUNCHES FREE THE WILD.
A NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION
FOR ANIMAL RIGHTS.
SHE BEGINS A RELENTLESS
TWITTER CAMPAIGN
TO PERSUADE THE PAKISTANI
GOVERNMENT TO RELEASE KAAVAN.
Cher: WELL. I DID THAT.
I TWEETED AND SAID I
WOULD GET ON MY KNEES.
BUT THAT DIDN'T SEEM TO HELP.
[GENTLE PIANO MUSIC]
Narrator: CHER EVEN RECORDS A
SPECIAL SONG. "WALLS".
ABOUT THE LONELY
ELEPHANT'S PLIGHT.
♪ NEVER THOUGHT I'D
EVER END UP LIKE THIS ♪
BUT NOTHING CHANGES FOR KAAVAN.
HIS DIET IS TERRIBLE.
HIS PEN IS SMALL AND SQUALID.
AND WORSE STILL...
HE'S ALONE.
ASIAN ELEPHANTS NATURALLY
LIVE IN SMALL FAMILY HERDS
AND NEED THE FREEDOM TO ROAM.
Cher: THEY'RE SO SOCIAL.
THEY'RE LIKE WE ARE.
THEY'RE JUST LIKE WE ARE.
WE'RE VERY MUCH THE SAME.
THEY'RE SO FAMILY-ORIENTED
AND THEY'RE SO EMOTIONAL.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
Narrator: FEW ZOOS CAN
PROPERLY CARE FOR ELEPHANTS.
BUT ISLAMABAD ZOO
CONTINUES TO HANG ON
TO ITS STAR ATTRACTION.
IN 2020. A PASSIONATE
YOUNG PAKISTANI LAWYER
TAKES THE ZOO TO COURT.
HE DEMANDS THAT KAAVAN'S RIGHTS
AS AN ANIMAL BE RECOGNIZED
AND HE BE MOVED TO
A BETTER FACILITY.
Swan: CHER. THROUGH FREE
THE WILD.
WAS ONE OF THE PARTIES
IN THE PETITION.
[UPBEAT MUSIC]
Narrator: TO EVERYONE'S
SURPRISE. THEY SUCCEED.
Swan: OUR CASE BECAME ONE OF
THE LANDMARK PRECEDENT
WHICH HAS RECOGNIZED ANIMAL
RIGHTS FOR THE FIRST TIME
IN TRADITIONAL
HISTORY OF PAKISTAN.
Narrator: AND
THEN. IN MAY 2020.
PAKISTAN'S HIGH COURT DELIVERS
AN ASTONISHING JUDGMENT.
NOT ONLY MUST KAAVAN BE FREED.
BUT THE ENTIRE ZOO MUST CLOSE.
IT'S A LEGAL TRIUMPH BUT
A LOGISTICAL NIGHTMARE.
THE COURT RULES THAT KAAVAN
AND ALL OTHER ANIMALS
MUST GO IN 30 DAYS.
BUT IT'S SUMMER 2020.
THE MIDST OF THE WORST GLOBAL
EMERGENCY SINCE WORLD WAR II.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
Cher: AND SO THEN I SAID.
"DO WE REALLY WANT TO GO
TO ISLAMABAD DURING COVID?
THAT'S KIND OF NOT A GOOD
IDEA. WE'RE GOING TO DIE."
AND WE JUST DECIDED.
"OH. THAT'S NOT IMPORTANT
AS MUCH AS SAVING
THIS ELEPHANT."
[GENTLE PIANO MUSIC]
GO SAVE AN ELEPHANT IN ISLAMABAD
WAS LIKE THAT WAS WAY
BEYOND MY JOB DESCRIPTION.
BUT. YOU KNOW. THEY
JUST HAVE FEELINGS.
AND WE HAVE TO BE RESPONSIVE.
[BRIGHT MUSIC]
Narrator: THE PANDEMIC
BUYS EVERYONE SOME TIME.
WHILE FREE THE WILD
DESPERATELY SEARCHES
FOR KAAVAN'S NEW HOME.
[BRIGHT MUSIC]
FREE THE WILD TURNS TO RENOWN
ELEPHANT RESCUER LEK CHAILERT.
SHE CARES FOR 200 ELEPHANTS
AT HER SANCTUARY IN THAILAND.
[ELEPHANT SQUEAKING]
Narrator: LEK AND HER HUSBAND.
DEREK THOMPSON.
OFFER KAAVAN A HOME AT A
SISTER SANCTUARY IN CAMBODIA.
IF THE ZOO WILL RELEASE HIM.
[DELICATE PIANO MUSIC]
[GENTLE MUSIC]
Narrator: AT THE
CAMBODIA WILDLIFE SANCTUARY.
THE ELEPHANTS HAVE SPACE TO
ROAM IN THE PROTECTED FOREST.
Cowne: CAMBODIA WAS THE BEST
CHOICE BY FAR FOR KAAVAN.
BUT FOR US. IT'S A
LOGISTICAL NIGHTMARE.
Narrator: IT WILL TAKE
SEVEN HOURS BY AIR...
THEN FOUR HOURS BY TRUCK TO
DELIVER KAAVAN TO HIS NEW HOME.
Cowne: WE'RE GONNA NEED
A MASSIVE AIRCRAFT.
HOW THE HELL ARE WE
GONNA GET THAT NOW?
Narrator: THE SEARCH
FOR A CARGO PLANE
BIG ENOUGH TO TRANSPORT
A BULL ELEPHANT BEGINS.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
THEY'LL ALSO HAVE
TO BUILD A CRATE
THAT'S STRONG ENOUGH
TO RESTRAIN KAAVAN...
AND THEN TRAIN HIM TO
WILLINGLY ENTER IT.
IT'S A TALL ORDER.
FORTUNATELY. HELP IS AT HAND.
BY AUGUST. A TEAM FROM
THE GLOBAL ANIMAL WELFARE
ORGANIZATION. FOUR PAWS.
IS ALREADLY WORKING HARD
TO RELOCATE ALL THE OTHER
ANIMALS AT THE ZOO.
Dr. Amir: GOOD LUCK.
[LAUGHING]
Narrator: THEIR
LEADER. DR. AMIR KHALIL.
IS KNOWN AS THE WAR VET.
HE'S DONE COUNTLESS
HIGH-RISK ANIMAL RESCUES
FROM SYRIA. IRAQ. LIBYA.
AND THE GAZA STRIP.
DR. AMIR MUST PREPARE KAAVAN
PHYSICALLY FOR THE RELOCATION.
THE FIRST STEP:
PUT HIM ON A DIET.
[DELICATE MUSIC]
BUT HE'S ALSO WORRIED ABOUT
KAAVAN'S MENTAL HEALTH.
THE BULL ELEPHANT HAS KILLED
TWO OF HIS PREVIOUS KEEPERS.
Dr. Amir: I MET HIM
FOUR YEARS AGO.
AND I SAW. REALLY. AT THIS
TIME A VERY ANGRY GUY.
HATE HUMAN BEING.
HE HAD THE WORST
EXPERIENCE FOR AN ANIMAL.
HE DON'T SEE US AS A HUMAN.
HE SEE US LIKE MONSTERS.
[EMOTION@L
Narrator: NOW. WITH
THREE MONTHS TO GO.
THEY TARGET LATE
NOVEMBER FOR THE MOVE.
BUT THERE'S STILL NO AIRPLANE.
AND THEY'VE YET
TO BUILD A CRATE.
FINALLY. THEY TRACK DOWN
AN ILYUSHIN TRANSPORT PLANE
THAT MIGHT BE AVAILABLE.
BUT THERE'S ONE CONDITION.
Dr. Amir: ALEXANDER...
KEN'S AIRCRAFT TAKES THREE
METER 15 HIGH CRATES ATOP.
WIDTH IS TWO METER WIDE.
Alexander: THE THING IS
THIS CAGE IS VERY HEAVY.
WHAT WILL BE THE ANTICIPATED
WEIGHT OF THE CAGE
WITH ELEPHANT INSIDE?
Dr. Amir: GROSS WEIGHT. I WILL
BRING IT TO 10 TON.
Narrator: KAAVAN AND
THE CRATE CANNOT WEIGH
MORE THAN 10 TONS. OR
THEY'LL NEED A BIGGER PLANE.
THANKS TO AMIR'S DIET. KAAVAN'S
ALREADY SHED 500 POUNDS.
BUT HE NEEDS TO
TRIM DOWN SOME MORE.
EVEN AT HIS SVELTE
FLYING WEIGHT.
THE BULL ELEPHANT WILL REQUIRE
A SPECIALLY-CONSTRUCTED CRATE.
IT MUST BE AS SMALL AS
POSSIBLE TO RESTRAIN HIM...
YET BIG ENOUGH FOR HIM
TO WILLINGLY WALK IN.
AND IT'S GOT TO BE UNBREAKABLE
[HORN HONKING]
FOUR PAWS COMMISSIONED SOME
LOCAL ENGINEERS TO BUILD IT...
FAST.
WITH FOUR WEEKS TO GO. DR. AMIR
AND TRANSPORT EXPERT ERNST-JAN
KIP GO TO CHECK ON PROGRESS.
FIRST IMPRESSIONS ARE ALARMING.
Kip: EVERYTHING HE CAN
TOUCH WITH HIS TRUNK.
HE'LL DESTROY IT AND THE
AIRPLANE WILL GO DOWN.
HE IS OVER FIVE TON
OF MUSCLE AND POWER.
NICE DESIGNS. BUT IT'S
NOT ELEPHANT PROOF.
Narrator: AND
TO TOP IT ALL OFF.
THEY'VE PAINTED AN AFRICAN
ELEPHANT ON THE SIDE.
Dr. Amir: SO. HERE. NO
AFRICAN ELEPHANT.
MUST BE PAKISTANI.
PAKISTANI KAAVAN.
[CHATTERING]
[DRAMATIC PERCUSSIVE MUSIC]
Narrator: MEANWHILE. AT THE
CAMBODIA WILDLIFE SANCTUARY.
FRANTIC CONSTRUCTION IS UNDERWAY
TO BUILD A TEMPORARY NEW
ENCLOSURE FOR KAAVAN'S ARRIVAL.
HIS INITIAL PEN IS
LESS THAN AN ACRE
BUT A PARADISE COMPARED
TO WHERE HE IS NOW.
AND MOST IMPORTANT.
HE'LL HAVE COMPANY:
THE FIRST ELEPHANTS HE'LL
INTERACT WITH IN EIGHT YEARS.
THERE ARE TWO WEEKS TO THE MOVE.
KAAVAN'S REINFORCED CRATE.
NOW PAINTED WITH AN ASIAN
ELEPHANT. IS ON THE WAY.
EVERY HOUR COUNTS.
[ANXIOUS MUSIC]
NORMALLY. IT TAKES
FOUR TO SIX WEEKS
TO CRATE TRAIN AN ELEPHANT.
Dr. Amir: STOP. STOP. STOP!
GO.
Narrator: DR. AMIR
HAS ONLY 14 DAYS.
[METAL DOOR BANGING]
EVERYONE WATCHES ANXIOUSLY
TO SEE HOW KAAVAN
WILL REACT TO THE CRATE.
BUT THEY MAKE A FATAL MISTAKE...
LEAVING THE DOORS ON.
[BANGING]
[TRADITIONAL EASTERN MUSIC]
BY MORNING. KAAVAN
HAS TRASHED THE CRATE.
THEY'LL HAVE TO
BUILD ANOTHER ONE...
MUCH STRONGER.
THEIR LIVES ON THE
PLANE WILL DEPEND ON IT.
Kip: IF KAAVAN SMASHED THE
DOOR OUT OF THE CRATE.
WHILE HE'S IN THE AIRPLANE.
YEAH. WE ARE ALL IN BIG TROUBLE.
MUST BE STRONGER AND
MUST BE THICKER MATERIAL.
THE WELDING MUST BE MUCH BETTER.
[BANGING ON METAL]
Dr. Amir: YOU
HAVE TO DO IT. AND...
Man: WE'RE
CHECKING IT RIGHT NOW.
Dr. Amir: NO. YOU DON'T
CHECK. YOU JUST DO IT.
[LAUGHING]
NO CHECK. NO
[BANGING ON METAL]
COME. KAAVAN.
Narrator: AT LEAST DR.
AMIR CAN USE THE BROKEN CRATE
TO START KAAVAN'S TRAINING.
Dr. Amir: KAAVAN...
Narrator: AMIR COAXES
KAAVAN IN WITH A FRUITY PRIZE.
Dr. Amir: COME.
DON'T BE AFRAID.
REALLY. COME.
I SWEAR. NOTHING WILL HAPPEN.
YOU WILL NOT FALL DOWN.
Narrator: AND A
BURST OF FRANK SINATRA.
♪ I DID IT MY WAY
Dr. Amir: YES! A
FIRST STEP. YES!
BRAVO! COME.
ONE MORE. ONE MORE.
COME. YOU'VE DONE IT
ALREADY. [LAUGHING]
PATIENCE.
TRY TREAT HIM WITH
RESPECT. OR SINGING TO HIM.
I MEAN. NO ONE LIKE MY VOICE.
SO. FINALLY I HAVE A
BIG. GIANT ELEPHANT.
THE ONLY ONE I HAVE ON
EARTH WHO LOVE MY VOICE.
YES. MY WAY! YOUR WAY.
[TENSE MUSIC]
[CROW CAWING]
Narrator: KAAVAN'S
MAKING GREAT PROGRESS.
BUT WITH THE DAY'S TICKING
BY. COVID HITS HARD.
[COUGHING]
SEVERAL TEAM MEMBERS GET SICK.
Cher: AND SO THEN I SAID.
"DO WE REALLY WANT TO GO
TO ISLAMABAD DURING A COVID?
WE'RE GONNA-- WE SHOULD DIE."
Narrator: CHER'S
PLANS TO PARTICIPATE
ARE NOW IN JEOPARDY.
[ANXIOUS MUSIC]
WITH JUST A WEEK TO GO.
KAAVAN IS GETTING MORE
COMFORTABLE WITH HIS CRATE.
Schmidinger: GOOD BOY.
COME HERE.
Narrator: BUT THERE'S A
SUBTLE YET ALARMING CHANGE
IN KAAVAN'S MOOD.
Schmidinger: LOOK WHAT
WE HERE. SO FRESH.
Narrator: FOUR PAWS TRAINER
INGO SCHMIDINGER
NOTICES HE'S MORE AGGRESSIVE.
Schmidinger: YEAH. YEAH. YEAH.
THIS MORNING WE STARTED
TO CHECK BACK ON HIM.
AND WHAT HAPPENED?
JUST ONE SECOND. BOOM.
THAT'S IT. ATTACK.
IT WAS A TYPICAL...
BOOM...
AGAINST THIS.
Dr. Amir: AGAINST THE WALL?
Schmidinger: YES. AGAINST
THIS WALL.
[TENSE MUSIC]
Narrator: KAAVAN
HAS ENTERED MUST.
IT'S A MATING CONDITION
WHERE TESTOSTERONE SURGES
TO 60 TIMES THE NORMAL LEVEL.
MUST ELEPHANTS BECOME
HYPER AGGRESSIVE.
Schmidinger: BULLS IN MUST SEE
EVERY LITTLE THING AS A TARGET.
SO THEY ARE AIMING FOR KILLING.
[ELEPHANTS GROWLING]
Narrator: DESPITE THE DANGER.
THE TEAM MUST CONTINUE
KAAVAN'S TRAINING.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
ONBOARD THE PLANE.
ANY UNEXPECTED NOISE
COULD SET HIM OFF.
Schmidinger: WHAT WE DO.
WE CAN DO...
[METAL CLINKING]
JUST SOME NOISE.
BECAUSE THIS IS WHAT
WILL HAPPEN ON THE DAY.
IT WILL BE LIKE...
[BANGS METAL]
GOOD BOY!
CLOSE!
[BANGING METAL]
AND IT WILL BE LIKE THIS.
[ANXIOUS MUSIC]
Narrator: KAAVAN'S AGGRESSION
COULD LAST THREE TO FOUR WEEKS.
AND DR. AMIR IS IN
THE FIRING LINE.
Dr. Amir: ELEPHANT IN MUST
CAN KILL ANYONE.
'CAUSE HE LOOK FOR THE ALPHA.
AND HE WANT TO
REMOVE THIS ALPHA.
AND FOR HIM. I AM
THE FOCUS PERSON.
SO I COULD BE IN A HUGE
RISK AT THIS MOMENT.
SO I HAVE TO BE VERY CAREFUL.
[TENSE MUSIC]
Narrator: THE ENTIRE
AIRLIFT IS NOW IN JEOPARDY.
[ANXIOUS MUSIC]
DESPITE THE DANGERS
FROM COVID-19.
CHER IS DETERMINED TO
MAKE THE TRIP TO PAKISTAN.
IT'S BEEN FIVE YEARS SINCE
SHE HEARD OF KAAVAN'S PLIGHT.
Jen: WHERE ARE YOU GOING?
Cher: WE'RE ON
OUR WAY TO ISLAMABAD.
Jen: YEAH. TO DO WHAT?
Cher: TO GET KAAVAN.
Jen: YES. [CHUCKLING]
Narrator: THE AIRLIFT
IS SCHEDULED IN THREE DAYS.
DR. AMIR HAS GIVEN
KAAVAN SOME MEDICATION
TO SUPPRESS THE
SURGE IN TESTOSTERONE
AND HOPEFULLY CURB
HIS AGGRESSION.
MARK COWNE. WHO FOUNDED
FREE THE WILD WITH CHER.
HAS ARRIVED THROUGH
LONDON TO SEE KAAVAN OFF.
BUT IT'S NOT THE
REUNION HE HOPED FOR.
KAAVAN'S TEMPER IS STILL HOT.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
Cowne: TOTALLY MY FAULT. I
FORGOT KAAVAN WAS IN MUST.
I GOT TOO CLOSE.
Narrator: IT'S
A POTENT REMINDER
THAT KAAVAN IS STILL IN MUST
AND CAN BE VERY DANGEROUS.
[BRIGHT ELECTRONIC MUSIC]
AFTER 24 HOURS OF NONSTOP
TRAVEL FROM CALIFORNIA.
CHER FINALLY LANDS IN
ISLAMABAD. JUST IN TIME.
KAAVAN HAS A HARD
OUT IN TWO DAYS.
["BELIEVE" BY CHER]
[CHATTERING]
♪ NO MATTER HOW HARD I TRY
♪ YOU KEEP PUSHING ME ASIDE
AND I CAN'T BREAK THROUGH ♪
♪ THERE'S NO TALKING TO YOU ♪
Cher: AND THEN. ALL OF A
SUDDEN. I WAS IN ISLAMABAD
AND EVERYONE WAS SAYING. "WE
DIDN'T EXPECT YOU TO COME.
WHY ARE YOU HERE?"
AND I SAID. "BECAUSE I SAID
I WAS COMING. AND I'M HERE.
AND I'M. YOU KNOW...
I'M HERE TO GET KAAVAN."
♪ DO YOU BELIEVE IN
LIFE AFTER LOVE ♪
♪ I CAN FEEL SOMETHING
ARE YOU DR. AMIR?
Dr. Amir: GOOD MORNING. CHER.
Cher: HOW ARE YOU?
I'M SO HAPPY TO SEE YOU!
Dr. Amir: I'M FINE.
DO YOU BELIEVE IN MIRACLES?
[INDISTINCT] AND YOU
ARE HERE FINALLY.
Cher: YES. I AM.
Dr. Amir: WELCOME TO PAKISTAN
AND WELCOME TO THE ZOO.
Cher: THANK YOU.
♪ I CAN FEEL SOMETHING
YOU HAVE TO WALK UP THE
LONG ROAD INTO THE ZOO.
AND I COULD SEE HIM
FROM THE DISTANCE.
FIRST THING I NOTICED WAS.
WHAT IS HE DOING
IN THIS HELL HOLE
WHICH IS AS BIG
AS MY FINGERNAIL?
AND MY GOD. HE'S SO BROWN
AND BEAUTIFUL. RUSTY.
AND THEN. HE'S SO BIG.
I DIDN'T REALIZE.
AND HE'S NOT EVEN
A BIG ELEPHANT.
BUT ELEPHANTS ARE GIGANTIC.
HE HAS BEAUTIFUL EYES.
AND EVEN WHEN HE'S NOT WITH YOU
OR WHEN THERE'S NO ONE AROUND.
DOES HE STILL DO THIS BACKWARDS
AND FORWARDS THE WHOLE TIME?
Dr. Amir: 24/7.
Cher: RIGHT.
HELLO. KAAVAN!
Narrator: DR. AMIR
KNOWS THERE ARE TWO WAYS
FOR CHER TO BOND WITH KAAVAN:
FOOD...
Dr. Amir: HE LIKE WATERMELON
Cher: I LIKE WATERMELON TOO.
[LAUGHING]
Narrator: AND MUSIC.
♪ A LIFE THAT'S FULL
KAAVAN'S FAVORITE SONG
♪ AND EVERY HIGHWAY
♪ BUT MORE MUCH MORE THAN THIS
♪ I DID IT MY WAY
Cher: HE LOVES THAT SONG.
ANIMALS. YOU KNOW.
THEY LOVE MUSIC.
THEY'RE SOOTHED BY
IT. THEY REALLY ARE.
♪ I'VE HAD A FEW
♪ BUT THEN TOO FEW TO MENTION
IT WAS LIKE I ALREADY KNEW HIM.
BUT I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT
IT WAS GONNA BE LIKE.
I DIDN'T REALIZE
THAT HE WOULD HAVE
SUCH A CUTE PERSONALITY.
I THOUGHT HE WOULD
BE REALLY ANGRY.
♪ I DID WHAT I HAD TO DO
♪ I SAW IT THROUGH
WITHOUT EXEMPTION ♪
[EMOTIONAL PIANO MUSIC]
Narrator: CHER IS TOUCHED
BY HOW DEEPLY KAAVAN
HAS BONDED WITH DR. AMIR
Cher: THEY JUST WERE CLOSE.
THEY WERE LIKE BEST BUDDIES.
AND DR. AMIR SAID HE
WAS ATTACHED TO HIM.
HE'D NEVER BEEN REALLY
ATTACHED TO ANY OTHER ELEPHANT.
Dr. Amir: IT'S A CLEAR RULE. I
NEVER ALLOW TO BREAK IT.
I RESCUE ANIMALS FROM WAR ZONES
WITH THE TEAMS OF FOUR PAWS.
I LOVE THEM. I CARE FOR
THEM. I RESCUE THEM.
BUT I NEVER BUILD A
BOND. NOT TO BE TOUCHED.
AND I DONE MY FIRST MISTAKE.
I FELT A LOVE FOR THIS ELEPHANT.
[INTRIGUING MUSIC]
Narrator: WITH
ONLY ONE DAY TO GO.
KAAVAN'S STURDIER YET
SMALLER TRANSPORT CRATE
FINALLY ARRIVES.
NOT PRETTY. BUT HOPEFULLY
THIS TIME. ELEPHANT PROOF.
Cher: WILL HE COME IN HERE AS
WELL AS HE GOES IN THERE?
Goeritz: THE PLAN IS HE WILL GO
IN THERE AS HE IS TRAINED FOR.
HE WILL BE
TRANQUILIZED IN THERE.
AND THEN HE IS WALKING
BACKWARDS INTO THIS CRATE HERE.
Cher: AND THEN HOW
SEDATED IS HE?
Goeritz: HE'S SO-CALLED
STANDING SEDATION.
HE IS AWAKE. AWAKE ENOUGH THAT
HE CAN MANAGE THE MOVEMENT.
BUT HE IS DOPEY ENOUGH
THAT HE IS NOT STRESSED OUT
AND HE'S NOT FREAKING OUT.
Cher: AND DO YOU CHECK
HIM ALL THE TIME?
Goeritz: ALL THE TIME.
[ANXIOUS MUSIC]
[FIRE CRACKLING]
Narrator: JUST
12 HOURS TO GO.
TIME TO GATHER THE TEAM.
Dr. Amir: SO. AS
COUNTDOWN STARTS AGAIN.
CHER. FIRST. WELCOME
HERE IN THE TEAM.
THE TEAM WILL START HERE AT
SIX O'CLOCK IN THE MORNING.
PREPARING THE ENCLOSURE.
PREPARING THE ELEPHANT.
AFTER THIS. DR. FRANK
WILL TAKES THE LEAD
AS THE CHIEF VETERINARIAN
TO SEDATE THE ELEPHANT.
IT'S A TEAMWORK.
IT'S A BIG TEAMWORK.
WE HAVE TO HELP EACH OTHER.
CHER. I WILL SEE
YOU IN CAMBODIA.
THANK YOU.
[TEAM APPLAUDING]
Narrator: CHER
WE'LL FLY AHEAD
AND WILL BE WAITING FOR KAAVAN
WHEN HE LANDS IN CAMBODIA.
[TENSE MUSIC]
BUT NO ONE KNOWS HOW KAAVAN
WILL HANDLE THE FLIGHT.
THE ANXIETY IS RUNNING HIGH.
[ANXIOUS MUSIC]
IT'S D-DAY.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
KAAVAN IS SHIPPING OUT.
[CHATTERING]
Narrator: DR. AMIR AND HIS TEAM
ARE UNDER IMMENSE PRESSURE
AS THEY COAX KAAVAN
INTO HIS TRAVEL CRATE.
THEY'VE TRAINED AND PLANNED.
BUT NEVER REHEARSED.
AND TODAY. THE WHOLE
WORLD IS WATCHING.
[CHATTERING]
[CAMERAS CLICKING]
Dr. Amir: WHERE DO YOU
WANT THE MEDIA?
YOU HAVE A BIG THING
HERE IN HIS ARM.
Goeritz: MAKE SURE THERE'S
SOME SILICONE OIL ON IT
THAT IT'S MOVED EASY.
Narrator: VET FRANK
GURITZ IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR KEEPING KAAVAN CALM
DURING THE 24-HOUR JOURNEY.
HE MUST BE AWAKE ENOUGH TO STAND
BUT SEDATED ENOUGH TO RELAX.
IT'S A FINE BALANCE.
Goeritz: I FOCUS
ON WHAT CAN GO WRONG.
WHAT IS ESSENTIAL
NEEDS FOR THE ELEPHANT
FROM THE MEDICAL POINT OF VIEW
AND FROM THE SAFETY
POINT OF VIEW.
Narrator: GETTING KAAVAN
IN THE TRANSPORT CRATE
IS A TWO-STEP PROCESS.
FIRST. DR. AMIR LURES HIM INTO
THE LARGER TRAINING CRATE...
HIS WAY.
♪ AND SO I FACE
THAT FINAL CURTAIN ♪
♪ MY FRIEND
Man: GOOD BOY!
Narrator: ONCE INSIDE.
THEY CAN SEDATE HIM.
[TENSE MUSIC]
Kip: I CAN CLOSE THE GATE?
Schmidinger: YES PLEASE.
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC]
Narrator: HE'S GOT
TO BE ABSOLUTELY CALM
BEFORE THE NEXT PHASE.
[TRANQUILIZER GUN POPS]
[KAAVAN GROWLING]
[ANXIOUS MUSIC]
Goeritz: WAIT.
WE HAVE TO GIVE THE
DRUGS TIME TO WORK.
IT TAKES 20 MINUTES SO...
IT'S ALWAYS THE
HARDEST PART. WAITING.
Dr. Amir: WE HAVE TO KEEP
EVERYTHING QUITE UNDER CONTROL.
THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT.
WE SHOULD NOT LOSE THE FOCUS.
Narrator: THE NOISY CROWD
OF MEDIA ISN'T HELPING.
[CAMERAS CLICKING]
[CHATTERING]
Dr. Amir: PLEASE. IF YOU WANT TO
STAY NOW YOU HAVE TO BE QUIET.
OTHERWISE I WILL BE
OUT AND YOU'LL BE OUT.
SO PLEASE RESPECT THIS.
Narrator: NOW. THE
REALLY DIFFICULT PART.
TRANSFERRING KAAVAN INTO THE
SMALLER TRAVEL CONTAINER...
BACKWARDS.
[ANXIOUS MUSIC]
ROPES AND A TEAM OF HELPERS
WILL PROVIDE SOME
GENTLE PERSUASION.
[CHATTERING]
KAAVAN'S STILL IN MUST. AND
THOUGH DROWSY. HE'S AGGRESSIVE.
Kip: PULL MORE. MORE. MORE!
OKAY!
Narrator: BUT
HE DOESN'T RESIST.
Cher: HE WENT IN BEAUTIFULLY.
Dr. Amir: I THINK HE UNDERSTOOD
WE ARE WORKING FOR HIM.
WE COME TO BE CALM.
A NICE CHILD.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
Narrator: 35 YEARS AFTER
BEING CONFINED TO ISLAMABAD ZOO.
KAAVAN IS AT LAST ON HIS
JOURNEY TO A BETTER LIFE.
Cher: I DIDN'T THINK THEY
WERE GONNA GET HIM
TO GO INSIDE THE CRATE.
BUT HE DID UNBELIEVABLY WELL.
AND HE WAS JUST
GREAT ABOUT THAT.
[CRICKETS CHIRPING]
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
[METAL CLANKING]
Narrator: THE GIANT
ILYUSHIN TRANSPORT PLANE
CAN SWALLOW A SCHOOL BUS.
IT'S SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED
TO DELIVER HEAVY LOADS
TO REMOTE AREAS.
BUT AN AWAKE BULL ELEPHANT
IN MUST IS NO ORDINARY CARGO.
IF HE SHIFTS HIS WEIGHT
INSIDE THE CONTAINER.
IT COULD THROW THE
WHOLE PLANE OFF BALANCE.
[MAN SHOUTING]
ALREADY. HE'S SWINGING THE
FIVE-TON CRATE
FROM SIDE TO SIDE.
THE PILOTS ARE SERIOUSLY WORRIED
IT WILL DAMAGE THE PLANE.
[TENSE MUSIC]
HE HAS TO HOLD STILL.
[CHATTERING]
DR. AMIR HOPES HIS
FAVORITE SUGAR CANE SNACKS
WILL CALM HIM DOWN.
Dr. Amir: I DON'T
SLEEP ON THIS FLIGHT.
I WAS REALLY THINKING
IF EVERYTHING GO WRONG.
IT WILL BE A BIG. BIG PROBLEM.
Narrator: KAAVAN
CAN'T SLEEP MUCH EITHER.
HE MUST REMAIN STANDING FOR
THE WHOLE SEVEN-HOUR FLIGHT.
BUT IF THE DRUGS THAT ARE
KEEPING HIM CALM WEAR OFF.
THEY CAN ALL BE IN TROUBLE.
[TENSE MUSIC]
Dr. Amir: HE'S REALLY BIG
ELEPHANT. HE'S REALLY STRONG.
SO IF I'M AN ELEPHANT. I'M
IN THIS BOX. WHAT CAN I DO?
WHAT CAN I BREAK?
WHAT CAN I OPEN?
WHAT CAN I BEND? I...
EVERYTHING.
[TENSE MUSIC]
[SOFT MUSIC]
Narrator: THE
RESPONSIBILITY WEIGHS HEAVILY
ON DR. AMIR'S MIND.
[KAAVAN GROWLING]
Dr. Amir: TO BRING
THE ELEPHANT OF AIRPLANE.
IT'S A HUGE CHALLENGE.
JUST TO TAKE THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR A LIFE.
FOR A CREATURE LIKE KAAVAN
WITH ALL THIS LOVE ALL OVER
THE WORLD FOR THIS ELEPHANT.
I FEEL THAT WEIGHT
ON MY SHOULDER.
IF THE ELEPHANT WILL
SURVIVES THIS THING.
I FEEL HOW IMPORTANT THIS
IS FOR ME. FOR MY TEAM.
FOR THE CRITICS. FOR
OUR PARTNER. FOR CHER.
Cher: AND THEN I
THOUGHT. WELL...
WHAT HAPPENS IF HE
GETS UPSET OR ANGRY
AND HE STARTS TO ROCK THE PLANE?
[TENSE MUSIC]
["BELIEVE" BY CHER]
IT WAS REAL. IT WAS ALMOST REAL.
WE HAD A BIT TO GO
STILL. BUT IT WAS REAL.
WE WERE THERE. WE
WERE IN CAMBODIA.
AND THE PEOPLE WERE
SO EXCITED TO SEE HIM.
♪ DO YOU BELIEVE IN
LIFE AFTER LOVE ♪
Narrator: SEVEN HOURS AND
TWO AND A HALF THOUSAND MILES
SINCE LEAVING PAKISTAN.
THE GIANT PLANE WITH
ITS PRECIOUS CARGO
REACHES SIEN REAP
AIRPORT IN CAMBODIA.
THE AIRPORT'S BEEN CLOSED FOR
SIX MONTHS BECAUSE OF COVID.
BUT SAKHAN. AN
INFLUENTIAL BUSINESSMAN
AND CO-FOUNDER OF THE
CAMBODIA WILDLIFE SANCTUARY
PERSUADES THE GOVERNMENT
TO LET KAAVAN LAND.
Cher: WE WOULDN'T HAVE
GOTTEN ANYTHING DONE
IN CAMBODIA WITHOUT MR. HAN.
HE WAS LIKE THE MAN.
MR. HAN'S THE MAN.
[CHANTING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
I HEARD THAT HE HAD
BEHAVED VERY WELL.
Narrator: ALSO THERE TO
MEET KAAVAN IS DEREK THOMPSON.
WHO WILL LOOK AFTER
HIM AT THE SANCTUARY.
Thompson: SO IT'S
BEEN QUITE AN ORDEAL
GETTING READY FOR KAAVAN.
WE HAD A LIMITED TIME TO
GET THINGS PREPARED FOR HIM.
FOR HIS ARRIVAL.
Narrator: DEREK'S CREW LOADS
KAAVAN ONTO A FLATBED
FOR THE LAST LEG.
A FOUR-HOUR DRIVE.
[INTRIGUING MUSIC]
DEREK RIDES OUTSIDE
THE WHOLE WAY.
CONSTANTLY CHECKING ON KAAVAN...
WITH CHER IN CONVOY BEHIND.
Cher: I THOUGHT HE
WAS GONNA FALL OFF
BECAUSE HE WAS JUST
HOLDING ON TO THE BARS.
AND HE JUST KEPT GOING AROUND
KAAVAN AND TALKING TO HIM.
HE WAS TRYING TO CALM HIM.
BECAUSE IT HAD BEEN
SUCH A LONG TIME
THAT HE'D BEEN
TRAPPED IN THAT CAGE.
BECAUSE HE FILLED UP EVERY
SPACE OF IT. YOU KNOW?
SO DEREK WAS AMAZING.
Narrator: IT'S
NIGHTTIME WHEN KAAVAN
FINALLY ARRIVES AT HIS NEW HOME.
CHER WANTS TO SEE HIM
SAFELY OFF THE TRUCK.
ANKLE STRAPS HAVE KEPT
KAAVAN GENTLY RESTRAINED
THROUGHOUT THE JOURNEY.
BUT AFTER 24 HOURS. HE
CAN'T WAIT TO GET THEM OFF.
[METAL CLUNKING]
FINALLY. KAAVAN REVERSES
CAREFULLY INTO HIS NEW LIFE.
[BRIGHT MUSIC]
Thompson: HE'S COMING OUT THE
BACK DOOR INTO HIS SHELTER.
HE ARRIVED IN THE DARK
AND THAT MADE THINGS A
LITTLE MORE COMPLICATED.
GETTING HIM OUT AND UNLOADED.
HE WAS EXHAUSTED.
HE WAS STILL KIND OF
PUNCHDRUNK FROM THE FLIGHT.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
Cher: I COULD JUST SEE HIS
SHADOW MOVING AROUND.
AND HE WAS SO CALM AND
NOT DOING ANYTHING.
HE JUST WAS INTERESTED. AND HE
WAS CHECKING OUT EVERYTHING.
I SAW A DIFFERENT ELEPHANT.
[INTRIGUING MUSIC]
[BIRDS WHISTLING]
Narrator: IT'S A NEW DAWN
FOR KAAVAN IN HIS NEW HOME.
AND CHER CAN'T WAIT
TO CHECK ON HIM.
Thompson: HE'S SETTLED IN
REMARKABLY WELL.
Cher: HE'S VERY INQUISITIVE.
Thompson: HE IS.
HE GOES FROM ONE LITTLE THING.
BECAUSE HE'S NEVER HAD ANY
OF THESE TYPES OF ENRICHMENTS
THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO
HIM. THAT HELP HIM TO-
Cher: NO. HE NEVER HAD ANYTHING.
Thompson: NO.
[EXCITING MUSIC]
Narrator: THE CAMBODIA
WILDLIFE SANCTUARY
IS 30.000 ACRES OF
PRISTINE TROPICAL FOREST.
WHICH. LIKE THESE OTHER
RESCUED ELEPHANTS.
KAAVAN WILL EVENTUALLY
GET TO EXPLORE.
FIRST. HE'LL SETTLE INTO A
SMALL TEMPORARY ENCLOSURE
BY HIMSELF.
BUT HE'S NOT COMPLETELY ALONE.
THERE ARE THREE
FEMALES NEXT DOOR.
AND THEY'RE EAGER TO MEET HIM.
Thompson: THAT'S SARAH MIA.
SHE'S THE YOUNG ONE.
WHO LIKELY WILL BE
MOST INTERESTED IN THE BOY.
Cher: MRS. KAAVAN.
Thompson: YEAH. SOMETHING
LIKE THAT. INDEED.
THEY'RE DOING SOME TALKING.
ELEPHANTS OF COURSE
ARE ALWAYS TALKING.
Cher: BUT I DIDN'T HEAR IT.
WHERE'S THE TALKING PART?
I COULDN'T HEAR
THE TALKING PART.
Thompson: WELL. THE MAJORITY OF
ELEPHANT TALK IS SUB-PERCEPTION.
Cher: OKAY. OKAY.
Thompson: YOU TOUCH YOUR HAND
ON THEIR FOREHEAD.
IT'S ALWAYS
VIBRATING. VIBRATING.
THEY'RE ALWAYS TALKING.
VERY HIGHLY SOCIAL BEING.
THAT'S ONE OF THE REASONS
THE TRAGEDIES FOR AN ELEPHANT
TO BE KEPT SOLITARY
AWAY FROM ITS OWN KIND.
AWAY FROM ITS OWN
NATURAL BEHAVIOR.
Cher: RIGHT.
Thompson: AND YOU BROUGHT HIM
AWAY FROM ALL OF THAT.
Cher: THANK YOU.
Thompson: AND INTO A NEW WORLD.
AND THIS IS JUST THE START.
[BRIGHT ELECTRONIC MUSIC]
Narrator: WHILE
THE LADIES WAIT.
KAAVAN FRESHENS UP WITH A SPA...
ELEPHANT STYLE.
Thompson: KAAVAN.
WANTS TO PLAY IN A MUD.
Cher: YES. IS THAT SOMETHING...
I HEARD IT WAS SOMETHING
THAT THEY DO THAT'S SPECIFIC.
Thompson: SKIN. IT'S LIKE
GOING INTO A MUD SPA.
Cher: AHA.
Thompson: GOOD PROTECTION FROM
THE SUN. NO SUNBURN. BUGS.
IN THE COLD WEATHER AT NIGHT.
IT KEEPS THEIR BODY
TEMPERATURE WARMER.
[BRIGHT MUSIC]
THEY HAVEN'T REALLY HAD
TOO MUCH OPPORTUNITY
TO ENGAGE WITH EACH OTHER
OTHER THAN THROUGH
THESE BARRIERS.
BUT THAT'S FOR SAFETY.
THEY'RE NOT TOTALLY
COMFORTABLE WITH HIM YET.
BUT IT WILL HAPPEN.
THIS MORNING. I PUT SOME OF
HIS POO INTO THEIR SHELTER.
AND THEY TALKED AND TALKED
AND TALKED ABOUT IT.
AND THEY WERE SO
EXCITED AND GIGGLING.
IT'S A WAY TO LEARN A
LOT ABOUT AN ELEPHANT.
THEY DRAW A LOT OF
INFORMATION FROM THEIR SCENT.
SO THEY TALKED FOR A GOOD
HALF HOUR ABOUT HIS POOP.
[LAUGHING]
Cher: THAT'S AMAZING!
Thompson: GET THE
TRUNK TOUCHING.
Cher: SO HE KNOWS
WHAT HE'S DOING.
HE'S WANTING TO BE-
Thompson: HE'S PLAYING COY!
Cher: RIGHT.
Thompson: IT'S GONNA WORK.
IT'S GONNA WORK JUST FINE.
Cher: YOU HAVE TO SEND
ME PICTURES.
Thompson: ABSOLUTELY.
[GENTLE PIANO MUSIC]
Narrator: AS KAAVAN
REDISCOVERS THE JOY
OF ELEPHANT COMPANIONS.
IT'S TIME TO SAY GOODBYE
TO THE MAN WHOSE HEART HE
TOUCHED MORE THAN ANY OTHER
DURING THE RESCUE.
THEY HAVE BEEN TOGETHER
EVERY DAY FOR THREE MONTHS.
Dr. Amir: HE'S
NOT IN MUST ANYMORE.
Thompson: NO. HIS
BEHAVIOR CHANGES.
HE'S BEAUTIFUL.
Dr. Amir: I REALIZE I'M
LEAVING TODAY. SO...
YEAH. I LOSE MY HAPPINESS.
HE GIVE ME HAPPINESS.
IT MEAN TOO MUCH TO ME.
I'M SAD TO LEAVE HIM.
YEAH.
[EMOTIONAL MUSIC]
THANK YOU.
Narrator: DR. AMIR
LEAVES WITH A HEAVY HEART
BUT IMMENSELY PROUD OF WHAT
THEY ALL HAVE ACHIEVED.
ATTITUDES TOWARDS ANIMAL
WELFARE ARE CHANGING.
AND CONDITIONS FOR ELEPHANTS
IN CAPTIVITY HAVE IMPROVED.
BUT NOT FAR FROM
KAAVAN'S NEW SANCTUARY
LIES A STARK REMINDER
THAT ASIAN ELEPHANTS
WERE LONG CONSIDERED
BEASTS OF BURDEN.
IT'S AN ANCIENT
MONUMENT THAT WAS BUILT
ON THE BACKS OF
HUNDREDS OF ELEPHANTS.
[UPBEAT MUSIC]
ANGKOR WAT.
Cher: HUNDREDS OF
ELEPHANTS BUILT IT.
AND I BET HALF OF
THEM DIED DOING IT.
AND ALL OF A SUDDEN...
A REALITY THAT I WOULD
HAVE NEVER UNDERSTOOD.
AND I THOUGHT. OKAY.
NOW I WANT TO GO.
♪ THIS IS A SONG
FOR THE LONELY ♪
Narrator: IN
2019. CAMBODIA BANNED
TOURIST ELEPHANT RIDES HERE.
JOINING A MOVEMENT WITH OVER
100 OTHER TOURIST ORGANIZATIONS
ACROSS THE WORLD.
♪ I'LL BE BY YOUR SIDE
THE MODERN WORLD HAS
BROUGHT A POWERFUL TOOL
TO THE CAMPAIGN FOR ANIMAL
RIGHTS: SOCIAL MEDIA.
IT'S BEEN FIVE YEARS
SINCE SAMAR KHAN
FIRST LAUNCHED HER FREE
KAAVAN PETITION ONLINE.
Khan: I HOPE THAT KAAVAN'S
STORY INSPIRES PEOPLE
TO ACT OUT ON BEHALF
OF ANIMAL WELFARE.
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE
KAAVAN'S JOURNEY
REALLY SHOWS THE
POWER OF PEOPLE.
I THINK IT'S AMAZING THAT CHER
REALLY ADOPTED
KAAVAN AS HER OWN.
♪ THIS IS A SONG
FOR THE LONELY ♪
♪ CAN YOU HEAR ME TONIGHT
Cher: YOU KNOW
WHAT'S SO STRANGE?
FIRST OF ALL. I NEVER
THOUGHT WE COULD DO IT.
THAT WE WOULD BE HERE. THAT
I WOULD STAND NEXT TO HIM.
AND THAT THIS WOULD HAPPEN.
♪ FOR THE LONELY
♪ WHEN YOUR DREAMS
WON'T COME TRUE ♪
Narrator: CHER'S NOT DONE.
THREE MONTHS LATER.
BACK HOME IN CALIFORNIA.
SHE CHECKS IN ON
KAAVAN'S PROGRESS.
[CHUCKLING]
Thompson: HELLO!
BEAUTIFUL AS EVER. LOOK AT YOU!
Cher: HOW'S OUR BOY?
HOW'S OUR BOY?
Thompson: WELL. WE'RE GONNA
GET RIGHT TO HIM.
'CAUSE HE'S THE MAIN EVENT.
YEAH. HE'S RIGHT BEHIND ME HERE.
Cher: OH!
LOOK AT HIM!
Thompson: HERE. WAIT A MINUTE.
SEE IF HE SAYS HI.
HE SAYS HI.
YOU'RE SO BEAUTIFUL.
Cher: LOOK AT HIM!
Thompson: YOU LOOK BEAUTIFUL!
Cher: HE'S A BEAUTIFUL GUY.
Thompson: HE'S QUITE A CALM BOY.
I'VE GOT TO KNOW
HIM A LITTLE BIT.
AND HE'S NOT LIKE OTHER
BULLS THAT I'VE KNOWN.
AND HE'S VERY CALM.
Cher: HE SEEMS REALLY HAPPY.
Thompson: HE'S GOOD.
I'M HAPPY WITH HIS
STATE RIGHT NOW.
THIS IS ONLY THREE QUARTERS
OF AN ACRE. THIS YARD.
AND HE'S MOVING INTO ONE
THAT'S GONNA HAVE 30 ACRES.
SO HE'LL HAVE MANY THINGS
TO ENGAGE HIM IN THE FOREST.
LOTS OF THINGS TO EAT.
BROWSE. RUN AROUND.
MEET THE LADIES IF HE'S
INTERESTED. [LAUGHS]
FOR THE MOST PART. HE'S
REALLY INTO EATING.
[LAUGHING]
Cher: HE'S ALWAYS EATING!
IT WAS A WONDERFUL TRIP.
THE WHOLE THING WAS WONDERFUL.
[CHEERFUL MUSIC]
♪ AND THIS IS A SONG
FOR THE LONELY ♪
THIS IS LIKE A FAIRY
TALE ENDING. YOU KNOW?
WHERE THEY KISS AT THE END.
♪ 'CAUSE SOMEONE'S
THERE FOR YOU ♪
AND I NOW KNOW I CAN
DO SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SO I'M GONNA CONTINUE.
[ELEPHANTS VOCALIZING]